Hello and welcome to
the Google Career Certificate
focused on cybersecurity.
I'm so excited that you're here!
My name is Toni, and I am
a Security Engineering
Manager at Google.
I'll be your instructor for
the first course of this
certificate program.
By starting this course,
you've already taken
a big step towards
building new skills that will
help you in your career.
Cybersecurity may seem
daunting at first,
but you'd be surprised by
the different backgrounds
many of us have.
I worked as an intelligence
analyst before I
got my first job in
the security industry,
and I'm excited to be
your instructor as you begin
your journey into security.
The demand for
security professionals
is growing at an
incredible rate.
By 2030, the U.S. Bureau
of Labor Statistics
expects security roles to
grow by more than 30%,
which is higher than
the average growth rate
for other occupations.
Global access to the
internet is expanding.
Every day, more people and
organizations are adopting
new digital technologies.
Having a diverse community of
security professionals
with unique backgrounds,
perspectives, and experiences is
essential for protecting and
serving different markets.
Working in security
has allowed me to
work with people from
all around the world.
Working with people who have
diverse backgrounds
ensures that our teams get
to ask lots of questions
and come up with more
creative solutions.
The main objective
in security is to
protect organizations
and people.
This line of work allows you to
support and interact with
people across the globe.
There are many openings for
entry-level security analysts,
and employers are
struggling to find
enough candidates with
the right expertise.
This program is designed to
give you the knowledge and
skills you need to start
or advance in the
security profession.
No matter your
current skill level,
by the time you finish
this certificate program,
you'll be prepared to find
a security-related job or
expand your career in security.
You may be wondering,
what do security
professionals actually do?
Have you ever had to
update your password
online to include a number
or a special symbol?
If so, then you're
already familiar with
basic security measures,
like password management.
And if you've ever received
a notification from
a service provider about
stolen data or a software hack,
then you have
first-hand experience
with the impact of
a security breach.
If you've ever asked yourself
how organizations
safeguard data,
then you already have
two important traits
that are necessary
to thrive in this industry:
curiosity and excitement.
Security analysts help minimize
risks to organizations
and people.
Analysts work to proactively
guard against incidents
while continuously monitoring
systems and networks.
And, if an incident does occur,
they investigate and
report their findings.
They are always asking
questions and looking
for solutions.
One of the best things
about the security industry
is the many paths and career
options it exposes you to.
Each option involves
a unique set
of skills and responsibilities.
No matter what your
background is,
you'll probably find that you
already have some
relevant experience.
If you enjoy collaborating
with and helping others,
solving puzzles, and are
motivated by challenges,
then this is the career for you.
For example, my background as
an intelligence analyst had
nothing to do with
cybersecurity.
However, having
strong critical thinking skills
and communication skills
provided a solid foundation for
my success when I decided to
pursue a career in security.
If you're not sure what
direction you want to
take in the security
industry, that's okay.
This program will give
you an overview of
many different types
of available jobs.
It will also let you explore
certain specialized
skill sets to help
you figure out where you
want to take your career.
The Google Career
Certificates are designed by
industry professionals
with decades
of experience here at Google.
You'll have a
different expert from
Google guide you through each
course in the certificate.
We'll share our
knowledge in videos,
provide practice opportunities
with hands-on activities,
and take you through
real scenarios
that you might
encounter on the job.
Throughout this
program, you'll gain
hands-on practice with detecting
and responding to attacks,
monitoring and
protecting networks,
investigating incidents,
and writing code
to automate tasks.
The program is made up of
several courses that are
designed to help you
land an entry-level job.
You'll learn about topics
like: core security concepts;
security domains;
network security;
computing basics,
including Linux and SQL;
along with understanding assets,
threats, and vulnerabilities.
Our goal is to help you reach
your goal of joining
the security industry.
You'll learn about
incident detection and
response, as well as how to use
programming languages,
like Python,
to accomplish common
security tasks.
You'll also gain valuable job
search strategies
that will benefit you
as you begin to find and
apply for jobs in the
security profession.
Completing this Google
Career Certificate
will help you develop
skills and learn how
to use tools to prepare you for
a job in a fast-growing,
high-demand field.
The certificate is designed
to prepare you for a job in
3-6 months if you work on the
certificate part-time.
Once you graduate, you can
connect with over 200 employers
who are interested in hiring
Google Career Certificate
graduates, like you.
Whether you're looking
to switch jobs,
start a new career,
or level up your skills,
this Google Career
Certificate can
open doors to new
job opportunities.
You don't need prior
experience or knowledge in
the security field because
this certificate program
will begin with the basics.
I'll be by your side
throughout this first course,
making sure that you're learning
the foundational
knowledge needed
to succeed in the field.
This program is also flexible.
You can complete all of
the courses in this
certificate on
your own terms and at
your own pace, online.
We've gathered some amazing
instructors to support
you on your journey, and
they'd like to introduce
themselves now:
Hi! My name is Ashley,
and I'm a Customer
Engineering Enablement
Lead for Security
Operations Sales at Google.
I'll take you through
security domains,
frameworks and controls,
as well as common
security threats,
risks, and vulnerabilities.
You'll also be introduced to
common tools used by
security analysts.
I can't wait to get started!
Hi there! My name is Chris,
and I'm the Chief
Information Security Officer
for Google Fiber.
I'm excited to talk to
you about the structure
of a network,
network protocols,
common network attacks,
and how to secure a network.
Hi there! My name is Kim,
and I'm a Technical
Program Manager at Google.
I will guide you through
foundational computing skills
that support the work
of a security analyst.
We'll also learn about
operating systems,
the Linux command line, and SQL.
Hi! My name is Da'Queshia,
and I'm a Security
Engineer at Google.
Together we'll
explore protecting
organizational assets
through a variety of
security controls and develop
a deeper understanding of
risks and vulnerabilities.
Hi! My name is Dave,
and I'm a Principal Security
Strategist at Google.
In our time together,
we'll learn about
detecting and responding
to security incidents.
You'll also have the chance
to monitor and analyze
network activity using
powerful security tools.
Hello! I'm Angel,
and I'm a Security
Engineer at Google.
We'll explore foundational
Python programming concepts
to help you automate
common security tasks.
Hello! I'm Dion.
I'm a Program Manager at Google.
I'm your instructor for
the first portion of the
final course of the program.
There, we'll discuss
how to escalate
incidents and communicate
with stakeholders.
And my name is Emily. I'm a
Program Manager at Google.
I'll guide you through
the final portion of
the program and share
ways that you can
engage with the
security community
and prepare for your
upcoming job search.
And, as you already know,
I'll guide you through the
first course of this program.
This is such a great time to
grow your career in
the field of security.
Sound exciting?
Let's get started!